# Arrow Generator

A tool to create arrows for [Sudoku Maker](https://sudokumaker.app/) for use on [SudokuPad](https://sudokupad.app/). It makes use of Sudoku Maker's `Cosmetic lines` element to draw the outline of the arrows, which generates SVG paths on SudokuPad.

The attributes of the elements in the JSON generated by Sudoku Maker are passed directly to the generated SVG paths on Sudokupad, and as such editing the JSON in Sudoku Maker's `Share` dialog allows styling of the resultant paths.

This tool generates JSON used to replace Sudoku Maker's puzzle element data, with some properties replaced in the generated JSON during the sharing to SudokuPad process. To be able to edit the generated JSON on Sudoku Maker, enable advanced tools via:
```
Preferences -> Advanced -> Enable advanced tools
```

## Usage Instructions

The tool currently supports two types of arrows. Instructions are given in the following sections for the creation of each arrow type.

### Small Arrows

1. Edit `arrow-generator/input.json`:
    - It must be a list of specification objects of the following form:
      ```py
      {
        "type": Literal["small" | "bent"],
        "colour": r'#[0-9]{9}',
        "grid": list[list[ArrowString]]
      }
      ```
    - Each `ArrowString` in grid represents a cell and must be of the form `''.join(list[ArrowSpecifier])`
      - `ArrowSpecifier` is either a single `DirectionLetter` or `f"{DirectionLetter}:{DirectionLetter}"`
      - `DirectionLetter = Literal['w', 'e' 'd', 'c', 'x', 'z', 'a', 'q']`.
    - Each `DirectionLetter` corresponds to its associated direction, as indicated in the following diagram:
      ```
      +-------+
      | q w e |
      | a   d |
      | z x c |
      +-------+
      ```
    - Arrows can be represented by a single letter or by `{letter}:{letter}` to give the position within the cell and direction separately.
2. Run `arrow-generator/arrows.py`.
3. This tool generates JSON data for each specification in `input.json`. For each JSON file:
    - On Sudoku Maker, create a new `Cosmetic lines` element and replace the JSON in `Edit data as JSON` with the contents of `arrow-generator/output/small/{arrow colour}.json`
4. When using the `Share` menu to open the puzzle in SudokuPad, use `Edit JSON` to apply the following changes:
    - Add a `"fill": {arrow colour}` property to each line object generated with this tool.
    - This can be achieved using find and replace:
      - Find: `"color": "#999f",`
      - Replace: `"color": "#999f","fill": "#999f",`

### Bent Arrows

1. Edit `arrow-generator/input.json`:
    - Add a specification object with `"type": "bent"`.
    - The remaining fields (`colour`, `grid`) follow the same structure described in [Small Arrows](#small-arrows).
    > [!NOTE]
    > The arrow generator only supports bent arrows formed from the following pairs of directions:
    >```
    >e:w, e:d, c:d, c:x, z:x, z:a, q:a, q:w
    >```
    > Using any other direction pairs will cause the generator to fail.
2. Run `arrow-generator/arrows.py`.
3. The tool will generate pairs of JSON files:
    - `arrow-generator/output/bent/{arrow colour}/1-lines.json`
    - `arrow-generator/output/bent/{arrow colour}/2-arrows.json`
  
   For each file:
    - On Sudoku Maker, create a new `Cosmetic lines` element and replace the JSON in `Edit data as JSON` with the contents of the generated file.
4. When using the `Share` menu to open the puzzle in SudokuPad, use **Edit JSON** to apply the following changes:
    - Add a `"fill": {arrow colour}` property to each line object generated with this tool.
      - Find: `"color": "#999f",(\n\s*)"thickness": 1.7`
      - Replace: `"color": "#999f",\1"fill": "#999f",\1"thickness": 1.7`
    - Add a `"stroke-linecap": "square"` property to each arrow object:
      - Find: `"color": "#999f",(\n\s*)"thickness": 4.9`
      - Replace: `"color": "#999f",\1"thickness": 4.9,\1"stroke-linecap": "square"`
